.\" Man page for mpcw
.\" Contact teegre@icloud.com
.TH man 8 "12 December 2019" "0.1" "MPCW man page"
.SH NAME
mpcw \- A wrapper for mpc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
mpcw [COMMAND]

command

mpcwd

.SH DESCRIPTION
mpcw is a wrapper+ for Music Player Daemon's client, mpc.
.br
It enables notification on song change, "music non-stop" and playback statistics.
.br
It also provides many aliases/commands to easily control the music player from a terminal.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Add this line to your .shellrc file:
.br
.br
source $HOME/.local/bin/mpcw
.br
.br
The mpcw daemon is launched once you open a terminal.

.SH COMMANDS
Commands can be invoked directly from the command line.
.br
Also, it's possible to call mpcw functions (ie. as keyboard shortcuts in a tiling window manager), by entering:
.br
mpcw [COMMAND] [ARGS]
.br
.br 
.TP
PLAYBACK CONTROL:
.br
- play <track> (pl): start playback. If a track number is provided, play this track.
.br
- pause: pause/unpause playback.
.br
- toggle (p): play/pause.
.br
- stop (st): stop playback.
.br
- sta: stop playback when current song is over.
.br
- next (nx): go to next song.
.br
- prev (pv): go to previous song.
.br
- seek <position>: seek through current song (use percentage or H:M:S)
.br
.br
.TP
PLAYLIST CONTROL:
.br
- pls: display current playlist
.br
- hist: display song history (latest first)
.br
- add <file(s)>: add song(s) to the playlist (auto-completion enabled)
.br
- new <file(s)>: same as add, but clears the playlist before adding songs.
.br
- ins <file(s)>: insert song(s) after currently playing track.
.br
- del <track[-track]>: delete track(s) from the playlist.
.br
- cr: crop playlist. Delete all songs except the one playing.
.br
- clr: clear playlist.
.br
- see_album (seeal): display album.
.br
- see_artist (seear): display artist.
.br
.br
.TP
MUSIC NON-STOP:
.br
Music non-stop enables non-stop playback of songs or albums.
.br
Note: in song mode, consume, random, and crossfade are enabled.
.br
It's also possible to play songs/albums by artist, genre, date, etc.
.br
- musicnonstop <album|song|off> <tag value..tag value|off> (mns mnsa mnss mnso)
.br
.br
example: play random pop songs from the '80s
.br
mns song genre pop date 198
.br
.br
- play_album (pla): play current song's album.
If song mode is enabled, go back to that mode when album is over.
.br
- next_album (nxa): play another album (album mode only)
.br
- add_album (aa): add current song's album.
.br
.br
.TP
VOLUME CONTROL:
.br
- vol <[+/-]value>: set volume. If no argument is given, display actual volume.
.br
- dim: decrease volume by 50% or set volume back to previous value.
Volume can be dimmed only when a song is playing and it is disabled after pause or stop.
.br
.br
.TP
RATING SONG:
.br
- rating: show current rating.
.br
- love, like, tsok, soso, nope: rate the song 5, 4, 3, 2 or 1.
.br
.br
- unrate: remove rating.
.br
.br
.TP
STATISTICS:
.br
- playcount: display how many times a song has been played.
.br
.br
- lastplayed: display the last date and time the song was played.
.br
.br
- skipcount; display how many times a song has been skipped.
.br
.br
- reset_stats <file>: reset statistics of a given file.
.br
.br
.SH "FILES"
.PP
~/.config/mpcw/config
.RS 4
Configuration file.
.RE
.PP
~/.config/mpcw/hist
.RS 4
History file.
.RE
.PP
~/.config/mpcw/mpcw.log
.RS 4
Log file.
